# NFnetFU (Neuro Fuzzy Network Fusion)

NFnetFU (Neuro Fuzzy network Fusion) is a modularised integrative pipeline for microbiome data analysis and diseases specific prioritisation for targeted research which addresses problems surrounding collinearity, sparsity and effect size in data.

## Results :

This section comprises of 4 folders: NFnetFU figures, Results D1, Results D2 and Results D3.

### NFnetFU figures :
All the figures discussed in the manuscript.

### Results D1 :
All files (plots and csv) generated by NFnetFU during the analysis of dataset 1.

### Results D2 :
All files (plots and csv) generated by NFnetFU during the analysis of dataset 2.

### Results D3 :
All files (plots and csv) generated by NFnetFU during the analysis of dataset 3.

## Code :

This section has all the .R files required for the analysis along with a Rmarkdown file demonstrating how to implement them. Dataset 2 and 3 take a long time to compile module 1 results. Please dowload the MicrobiomeAnalyst R package from https://github.com/xia-lab/MicrobiomeAnalystR before running the code. The code is modularised and outputs results at every stage.

## Packages :

### MicrobiomeAnalyst :
MicrobiomeAnalystR contains the R functions and libraries underlying the popular MicrobiomeAnalyst web server, including > 200 functions for statistical, functional, and visual analysis of microbiome data. The package is synchronized with the MicrobiomeAnalyst web server. Use the following link to dowlaoad all the necessary R scripts to run MicrobiomeAnalyst.
https://github.com/xia-lab/MicrobiomeAnalystR

### SuRF :
Given a predictor matrix X and a response variable Y, this package aims to perform variable selection for a predictive generalised linear model. It does this in two stages: first a subsampling method with LASSO for ranking the variables, then a forward selection algorithm. Use the following link to dowlaoad all the necessary R scripts to run SuRF. 
https://www.mathstat.dal.ca/~tkenney/Rpackages/

### LEfSe :
LEfSe uses Linear Discriminant Analysis to estimate the effect size of each differentially abundant feature and, if desired by the investigator, to perform dimension reduction. Use the follwoing link to perform LEfSe analysis on galaxy.
https://huttenhower.sph.harvard.edu/galaxy/

## Data :

This section has all the microbiome/OTU abundance matrices, taxanomical files and labels for all the three datasets used for the analysis.

## Manual :
An R markdown manual for the pipeline explaining the inputs and outputs for each module can be found at https://rpubs.com/Vartika/760624
